docs/index.adoc, before:

= Xillio API Sandbox Quickstart

The sandbox is an environment that allows developers to quickly explore and experiment with the Xillio API. The sandbox
connects to public cloud storage that is automatically scratched every hour. This means that as a developer
experimenting you cannot break the sandbox. It resets itself every hour.

To get access you need to https://www.xillio.com/landing-page/access-xillio-sandbox[register for the sandbox].

The sandbox is public and shared with everybody. This means that as a developer you should be careful with the content
that you upload. That content is visible to all users of the sandbox. Make sure that you do not upload sensitive or
confidential materials.This document helps you get started with your experiments and exploration of the sandbox.
Please also take a look at the Xillio API documentation at https://docs.xill.io and the
https://support.xill.io/support/solutions/folders/24000003786[FAQ] on our support site for more information.

Throughout this document, we will reference the documentation where you can find background information or a full
description of all the parameters and options for a call. The Xillio API is a REST API that uses JSON. This means that
in order to use the API you need to do HTTP calls. This document assumes that you have a basic understanding of the HTTP
protocol, REST principles, and JSON format.

In a lot of cases, HTTP calls can be done via your browser, however, to protect the content stored in the repositories
accessed via the Xillio API we use OAUTH2 authentication. This makes it difficult to use a browser to make the appropriate
HTTP calls. This document and the documentation provide examples and calls using the
https://curl.haxx.se/download.html[curl command line tool which is available for many different platforms].
You can, of course, use other tools, such as Postman or a programming language
of choice instead. In most cases, this should be straightforward. Please contact us if you run into any problems.

== Your First Interaction With the API

For your first interaction with the Xillio API we will simply use your browser and call the https://docs.xill.io/#api_system_ping[ping endpoint]:

1. Open your browser
2. Go to: https://sandbox.xill.io/v2/system/ping
3. You should see the following response in your browser:

.GET /v2/system/ping
[source,json]
----
{
    "tenant" : "sandbox",
    "serverTime" : "2018-07-31T12:18:56.819Z"
}
----

The https://docs.xill.io/#api_system_ping[ping endpoint] is an easy way to verify whether you can reach the Xillio API from your computer.
This call does not require authentication or authorization and can therefore be easily executed in your browser.

Alternatively, you can use curl:


1. Open a terminal or command line window.
2. Run the command: `curl -X GET https://sandbox.xill.io/v2/system/ping`
3. You should see the following output:

.Console Output
[source,bash]
----
$ curl -X GET https://sandbox.xill.io/v2/system/ping
{
    "tenant" : "sandbox",
    "serverTime" : "2018-07-31T12:18:56.819Z"
}
----

You can optionally add the `-i` flag to the `curl` command. This flag will cause curl to also show all HTTP response
headers:

1. Open a command line window.
2. Run the command: `curl -X GET https://sandbox.xill.io/v2/system/ping -i`
3. You should get the following response:

.Console Output
[source,bash]
----
$ curl -X GET https://sandbox.xill.io/v2/system/ping
HTTP/1.1 200
Server: nginx/1.15.2
Date: Tue, 31 Jul 2018 12:22:57 GMT
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
Transfer-Encoding: chunked
Connection: keep-alive
X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
X-XSS-Protection: 1; mode=block
Cache-Control: no-cache, no-store, max-age=0, must-revalidate
Pragma: no-cache
Expires: 0
Strict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000 ; includeSubDomains
X-Frame-Options: DENY
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *

{
  "tenant" : "sandbox",
  "serverTime" : "2018-07-31T12:22:57.983Z"
}
----

The values in the header might be different from the values that you are seeing, e.g. the Date header will, of course,
show the current date and time when you execute the call. We will leave out the `-i` flag in the remainder of this
document, but you can add it to every curl call if you want to observe the HTTP response headers.

== Getting an authentication token for the Xillio API

The next step to use the Xillio API is to request an authentication token. In order to retrieve an authentication token,
you will need the client id, client secret, user id and password that you've received for the sandbox.

1. Open a command line window.
2. Create a new token using curl:

NOTE: Make sure to pleace `<clientid>`, `<clientsecret>`, `<userid>`, and `<password>` with credentials supplied to you.
The *client id and secret must be url encoded*.

.Create a Token
[source,bash]
----
$ curl https://sandbox.xill.io/oauth/token -u "<clientid>:<clientsecret>" \
    -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded;charset=UTF-8" \
    -d "grant_type=password&username=<userid>&password=<password>"

# Output
{
  "access_token" : "*****",
  "token_type" : "bearer",
  "expires_in" : 43200,
  "scope" : "user users configurations entities contents",
  "jti" : "79a977b7-c887-4617-8d76-342abfc8a5bd"
}
----

Instead of the five asterisks in the `access_token` field, you will see a long seemingly random string that represents an
access token that you need to do any additional calls to the API. You can ignore all the other fields for now. The access
tokens expire, when that happens you can simply execute a new token request using the curl command above to obtain a
new, fresh access token.

== Getting a list of configured repositories from the Xillio API

Within the Xillio API, you can configure multiple repositories. In these configurations, you specify the connection
parameters that you need to connect to your repositories. The sandbox contains a number of pre-configured repositories.
These repositories connect to cloud storage that is automatically scratched every hour. You can not add, edit or delete
configurations from the sandbox.

In order to get the list of repositories, we will use a https://docs.xill.io/#api_entity_config_get[GET call on the entities endpoint].

1. Copy the value of the access_token from the previous response without the surrounding quotes.
2. Run the curl GET command below where you replace the five asterisks +++*****+++ with the copied access token:

.List Repositories
[source,bash]
----
$ curl -X GET https://sandbox.xill.io/v2/entities?scope=children \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer *****"

# Output
{
  "children" : [ {
    "id" : "https://sandbox.xill.io/v2/entities/5a184d0207903113023b5aa8",
    "xdip" : "xdip://5a184d0207903113023b5aa8/",
    "kind" : "FileSystem",
    "original" : {
      "name" : {
        "systemName" : "5a184d0207903113023b5aa8",
        "displayName" : "Sandbox Folder #1"
      }
    },
    "modified" : {
      "name" : {
        "systemName" : "5a184d0207903113023b5aa8",
        "displayName" : "Sandbox Folder #1"
      }
    }
  }, {
    "id" : "https://sandbox.xill.io/v2/entities/5a184d0207903113023b5aa9",
    "xdip" : "xdip://5a184d0207903113023b5aa9/",
    "kind" : "FileSystem",

   ... truncated for readability ...

  } ]
}
----

The above response contains a `children` field which contains an array of configured repositories. The id field of every
repository contains a valid URL that you can use to browse that repository. Please note that the actual id values and
URL might differ from what you are seeing in your responses.

== Continue to browse the repositories

You can navigate content with the Xillio API by doing get calls, using the `id` fields of entities, such as the
repositories retrieved in the example above.

1. Do a GET call using curl on one of the ids retrieved above. Do not forget to include the `-H` flag. E.g.:

.Browse Repositories
[source,bash]
----
$ curl -X GET https://sandbox.xill.io/v2/entities/5a184d0207903113023b5aa8?scope=children \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer *****"
----

From here you can continue to retrieve additional folders and entities.

== Next Steps

The Xillio API can be used to retrieve metadata about entities and entity content stored in repositories. With the steps
above we have barely touched the surface of what the Xillio API can do for you. Please read the https://docs.xill.io/#_overview[documentation] and do
some more experiments in the sandbox. That's what it's there for, e.g.:

- https://docs.xill.io/#api_content_get[Retrieve the contents of an entity]
- https://docs.xill.io/#api_content_update[Update the contents of an entity]
- https://docs.xill.io/#api_entity_create[Create a new entity and upload a document or image to the sandbox]

We also encourage you to use your own programming language and tool stack to do the calls above that we did on the command line using curl.

// TODO: Proofread

Commit message:

Add quickstart toc, small improvements

docs/index.adoc, after:

= Xillio API Sandbox

The sandbox is an environment that allows developers to quickly explore and experiment with the Xillio API. The sandbox
connects to public cloud storage that is automatically scratched every hour. This means that as a developer
experimenting you cannot break the sandbox. It resets itself every hour.

To get access you need to https://www.xillio.com/landing-page/access-xillio-sandbox[register for the sandbox].

The sandbox is public and shared with everybody. This means that as a developer you should be careful with the content
that you upload. That content is visible to all users of the sandbox. Make sure that you do not upload sensitive or
confidential materials. This document helps you get started with your experiments and exploration of the sandbox.
Please also take a look at the Xillio API documentation at https://docs.xill.io and the
https://support.xill.io/support/solutions/folders/24000003786[FAQ] on our support site for more information.

Throughout this document, we will reference https://docs.xill.io[the documentation] where you can find background information and a full
description of all the parameters and options for a call. The Xillio API is a REST API that uses JSON. This means that
in order to use the API you need to do HTTP calls. This document assumes that you have a basic understanding of the HTTP
protocol, REST principles, and JSON format.

In some cases HTTP calls can be done via your browser. However, to protect the content stored in the repositories
accessed via the Xillio API we use OAuth2 authentication. This makes it difficult to use a browser to make the appropriate
HTTP calls. This document and the documentation provide examples and calls using the
https://curl.haxx.se/download.html[curl command line tool which is available for many different platforms].
You can of course use other tools, such as Postman or a programming language
of choice instead. In most cases, this should be straightforward. Please contact us if you run into any problems.

.Getting Started
****

<<first-interaction>>

<<authenticating>>

<<browse-repos>>

<<next-steps>>

****

[#first-interaction]
== Your First Interaction with the API

For your first interaction with the Xillio API we will simply use your browser and call the https://docs.xill.io/#api_system_ping[ping endpoint]:

1. Open your browser
2. Go to: https://sandbox.xill.io/v2/system/ping
3. You should see the following response in your browser:

.GET /v2/system/ping
[source,json]
----
{
    "tenant" : "sandbox",
    "serverTime" : "2018-07-31T12:18:56.819Z"
}
----

The https://docs.xill.io/#api_system_ping[ping endpoint] is an easy way to verify whether you can reach the Xillio API from your computer.
This call does not require authentication or authorization and can therefore be easily executed in your browser.

Alternatively, you can use curl:


1. Open a terminal or command line window.
2. Run the command: `curl -X GET https://sandbox.xill.io/v2/system/ping`
3. You should see the following output:

.Console Output
[source,bash]
----
$ curl -X GET https://sandbox.xill.io/v2/system/ping
{
    "tenant" : "sandbox",
    "serverTime" : "2018-07-31T12:18:56.819Z"
}
----

You can optionally add the `-i` flag to the `curl` command. This flag will cause curl to also show all HTTP response
headers:

1. Open a command line window.
2. Run the command: `curl -X GET https://sandbox.xill.io/v2/system/ping -i`
3. You should get the following response:

.Console Output
[source,bash]
----
$ curl -X GET https://sandbox.xill.io/v2/system/ping
HTTP/1.1 200
Server: nginx/1.15.2
Date: Tue, 31 Jul 2018 12:22:57 GMT
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
Transfer-Encoding: chunked
Connection: keep-alive
X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
X-XSS-Protection: 1; mode=block
Cache-Control: no-cache, no-store, max-age=0, must-revalidate
Pragma: no-cache
Expires: 0
Strict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000 ; includeSubDomains
X-Frame-Options: DENY
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *

{
  "tenant" : "sandbox",
  "serverTime" : "2018-07-31T12:22:57.983Z"
}
----

The values in the header might be different from the values that you are seeing, e.g. the Date header will, of course,
show the current date and time when you execute the call. We will leave out the `-i` flag in the remainder of this
document, but you can add it to every curl call if you want to observe the HTTP response headers.

[#authenticating]
== Authenticating with the Xillio API

The next step to use the Xillio API is to request an authentication token. In order to retrieve an authentication token,
you will need the client id, client secret, user id and password that you've received for the sandbox.

1. Open a command line window.
2. Create a new token using curl:

NOTE: Make sure to pleace `<clientid>`, `<clientsecret>`, `<userid>`, and `<password>` with credentials supplied to you.
The *client id and secret must be url encoded*.

.Create a Token
[source,bash]
----
$ curl https://sandbox.xill.io/oauth/token -u "<clientid>:<clientsecret>" \
    -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded;charset=UTF-8" \
    -d "grant_type=password&username=<userid>&password=<password>"

# Output
{
  "access_token" : "*****",
  "token_type" : "bearer",
  "expires_in" : 43200,
  "scope" : "user users configurations entities contents",
  "jti" : "79a977b7-c887-4617-8d76-342abfc8a5bd"
}
----

Instead of the five asterisks in the `access_token` field, you will see a long seemingly random string that represents an
access token that you need to do any additional calls to the API. You can ignore all the other fields for now. The access
tokens expire, when that happens you can simply execute a new token request using the curl command above to obtain a
new, fresh access token.

[#browse-repos]
== Browse Repositories

=== List the Configured Repositories

Within the Xillio API, you can configure multiple repositories. In these configurations, you specify the connection
parameters that you need to connect to your repositories. The sandbox contains a number of pre-configured repositories.
These repositories connect to cloud storage that is automatically scratched every hour. You can not add, edit or delete
configurations from the sandbox.

In order to get the list of repositories, we will use a https://docs.xill.io/#api_entity_config_get[GET call on the entities endpoint].

1. Copy the value of the access_token from the previous response without the surrounding quotes.
2. Run the curl GET command below where you replace the five asterisks +++*****+++ with the copied access token:

.List Repositories
[source,bash]
----
$ curl -X GET https://sandbox.xill.io/v2/entities?scope=children \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer *****"

# Output
{
  "children" : [ {
    "id" : "https://sandbox.xill.io/v2/entities/5a184d0207903113023b5aa8",
    "xdip" : "xdip://5a184d0207903113023b5aa8/",
    "kind" : "FileSystem",
    "original" : {
      "name" : {
        "systemName" : "5a184d0207903113023b5aa8",
        "displayName" : "Sandbox Folder #1"
      }
    },
    "modified" : {
      "name" : {
        "systemName" : "5a184d0207903113023b5aa8",
        "displayName" : "Sandbox Folder #1"
      }
    }
  }, {
    "id" : "https://sandbox.xill.io/v2/entities/5a184d0207903113023b5aa9",
    "xdip" : "xdip://5a184d0207903113023b5aa9/",
    "kind" : "FileSystem",

   ... truncated for readability ...

  } ]
}
----

The above response contains a `children` field which contains an array of configured repositories. The id field of every
repository contains a valid URL that you can use to browse that repository. Please note that the actual id values and
URL might differ from what you are seeing in your responses.

=== Continue to Browse the Repositories

You can navigate content with the Xillio API by doing get calls, using the `id` fields of entities, such as the
repositories retrieved in the example above.

1. Do a GET call using curl on one of the ids retrieved above. Do not forget to include the `-H` flag. E.g.:

.Browse Repositories
[source,bash]
----
$ curl -X GET https://sandbox.xill.io/v2/entities/5a184d0207903113023b5aa8?scope=children \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer *****"
----

From here you can continue to retrieve additional folders and entities.

[#next-steps]
== Next Steps

The Xillio API can be used to retrieve metadata about entities and entity content stored in repositories. With the steps
above we have barely touched the surface of what the Xillio API can do for you. Please read the https://docs.xill.io/#_overview[documentation] and do
some more experiments in the sandbox. That's what it's there for, e.g.:

- https://docs.xill.io/#api_content_get[Retrieve the contents of an entity]
- https://docs.xill.io/#api_content_update[Update the contents of an entity]
- https://docs.xill.io/#api_entity_create[Create a new entity and upload a document or image to the sandbox]

We also encourage you to use your own programming language and tool stack to do the calls above that we did on the command line using curl.

// TODO: Proofread
